Optional deployment of Private Networks, Private Endpoints plus optional configuration of an ACL rule for all backend services (#864)
Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo: README.md

To then limit access to a specific set of users or groups, you can follow the steps from [Restrict your Azure AD app to a set of users](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-restrict-your-app-to-a-set-of-users) by changing "Assignment Required?" option under the Enterprise Application, and then assigning users/groups access.  Users not granted explicit access will receive the error message -AADSTS50105: Your administrator has configured the application <app_name> to block users unless they are specifically granted ('assigned') access to the application.-

### Restricting network traffic

By default, this application will allow connections from any IP address. The backend resources like Cognitive Search and Open AI are protected by API security. The web application does not have any authentication mechanism by default [see optional configuration of authentication](#enabling-authentication) and will allow any IP address to connect by default.

> To restrict access to the web application, the search endpoint, Azure Open AI, Azure Storage and the Cognitive Service Form Recognizer to an IP or network address, set the `ALLOWED_HOST` environment variable.

Reviewer: What do you think of ALLOWED_IP instead? ALLOWED_HOST reminds me of Django's setting https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts but has a different meaning.

> For example, to allow only the IP `43.133.5.124` to connect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to allow only the IP address `43.133.5.124` to connect:
```

```console
azd env set ALLOWED_HOST 43.133.5.124
```

> You can also use CIDR notation to specify an IP range, for example to allow the IP addresses 43.133.5.0-43.133.5.255 (the /24 network)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use CIDR notation to specify an IP address range, for example to allow the IP addresses 43.133.5.0-43.133.5.255 (the /24 network)
```

```console

> azd env set ALLOWED_HOST 43.133.5.124

Reviewer: This looks same as first example

```

> Please note that the IP configured will need to include the one you run `azd deploy` from as this process connects to the cognitive search index, the storage API, the web application and the form recognizer APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the IP address configured will need to include the one you run `azd deploy` from as this process connects to the cognitive search index, the storage API, the web application and the form recognizer APIs.
```

> Please note that the IP configured will need to include the one you run `azd deploy` from as this process connects to the cognitive search index, the storage API, the web application and the form recognizer APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the IP address configured will need to include the one you run `azd up` from, since deployment connects to the web application and the `prepdocs.py` script connects to the Cognitive Search index, Storage API, and Form Recognizer APIs.
```

> 

Reviewer: Can you link to a tool or article for finding out your IP address?

Reviewer 2: Here's the powershell version of retrieving my public IP address:

`$my_public_ip = (Invoke-WebRequest -uri http://ifconfig.me/ip).Content`

### Enabling Private Endpoints

> To enable a VNET for the backend and Private Endpoint for the web app, set the `AZURE_USE_PRIVATE_ENDPOINT` variable to true before running `azd up`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable a virtual network (VNet) for the backend and private endpoint for the web app, set the `AZURE_USE_PRIVATE_ENDPOINT` variable to true before running `azd up`
```

seems to be our learn.com capitalization style

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/data-integration/vnet/what-is

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/create-private-endpoint-portal?tabs=dynamic-ip

We could also link to those articles or others, if that is helpful

### Restricting network traffic

By default, this application will allow connections from any IP address. The backend resources like Cognitive Search and Open AI are protected by API security. The web application does not have any authentication mechanism unless [it is explicitly configured](#enabling-authentication) and will allow any IP address to connect by default.
To restrict access of the web application, the search endpoint, Azure Open AI, Azure Storage and the Cognitive Service Form Recognizer to an IP or network address, set the `ALLOWED_IP` environment variable.

For example, to allow only the IP address `43.133.5.124` to connect:

```console
azd env set ALLOWED_IP 43.133.5.124
```

You can also use CIDR notation to specify an IP address range, for example to allow the IP addresses 43.133.5.0-43.133.5.255 (the /24 network)

```console
azd env set ALLOWED_IP 43.133.5.0/24
```

Please note that the IP address configured will need to include the one you run `azd up` from, since deployment connects to the web application and the `prepdocs.py` script connects to the Cognitive Search index, Storage API, and Form Recognizer APIs.

### Enabling private endpoints

> 

Reviewer: Given the difficulties I had with just using the IP restriction without the Vnet, I propose merging IP section into this one, so that we can at least have vnet support. As far as I can tell, vnet deploy works.

By default, the deployed Azure web app allows users to chat with all your indexed data. You can enable an optional login system using Azure Active Directory to restrict access to indexed data based on the logged in user. Enable the optional login and document level access control system by following [this guide](./LoginAndAclSetup.md).

### Enabling private endpoints

> By default, the deployed application will allow connections from any IP address. To enable a [virtual network (VNet)](https://learn.microsoft.com/data-integration/vnet/what-is) for the resources and [private endpoint](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-overview) for the web app, set the `AZURE_USE_PRIVATE_ENDPOINT` variable to true before running `azd up`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the deployed application will allow connections from any IP address. To enable a [virtual network (VNet)](https://learn.microsoft.com/data-integration/vnet/what-is) for the resources and [private endpoint](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-overview) for the web app, set the `AZURE_USE_PRIVATE_ENDPOINT` variable to `true` before running `azd up`
```

1. Run `azd env set AZURE_USE_PRIVATE_ENDPOINT true`
1. Set `ALLOWED_IP` to the IP address that is running the `azd` commands:

```console
azd env set ALLOWED_IP 43.133.5.124
```

> You can also use CIDR notation to specify an IP address range, for example to allow the IP addresses 43.133.5.0-43.133.5.255 (the /24 network):

Reviewer 3: Link to CIDR info? (optional)

```console
azd env set ALLOWED_IP 43.133.5.0/24
```

<details>
<summary>How can I find my IP address?</summary>

On Windows:

```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest -uri http://ifconfig.me/ip).Content
```

On Linux/Mac:

```bash

> curl -s http://ifconfig.me/ip

Reviewer 3: Is this valid across all posix including codespaces, devcontainers?
